.. _usage:

Usage
=====

This section covers how to use Go Elasticsearch Alerts.

Startup
-------

Once you have :ref:`installed <install>` the binary, simply execute it in
order to start the daemon running.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ ./go-elasticsearch-alerts

.. _distributed:

Distributed Operation
---------------------

Go Elasticserach Alerts can be run in a distributed fashion without sending
duplicate alerts. Distributed operation can be enabled in the :ref:`main
configuration file <main-config-file>`. It uses the `lock
<https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/lock.html>`__ feature of Hashicorp's
`Consul <https://www.consul.io>`__ for synchronization across nodes and as such
requires a functioning Consul server in order to use this feature.

Specifically, each instance of this process will attempt to acquire the lock,
but only one node can have the lock at any given time. If the instance holding
the lock is killed, another instance will acquire the lock and become the
leader. Only the instance holding the lock will execute queries. However, all
instances will continue to :ref:`maintain state <statefulness>` regardless of
whether or not they have the lock.

Reloading Rules
---------------

Go Elasticsearch Alerts allows you to change your :ref:`rule configuration
files <rule-configuration-file>` without having to restart the process. If
you change your rules and wish to update the process to use the updated rules,
simply send the process a SIGHUP signal. It will then stop the currently-
running query handlers, parse the rules, create new query handlers with the
new rules, and start query handlers. You can send a SIGHUP signal to the
process with the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ kill -SIGHUP $(ps aux | grep '[g]o-elasticsearch-alerts' | awk '{print $2}')

Nomad
-----

Because Go Elasticsearch Alerts can be run in a distributed fashion and allows
live rule updates it is highly compatible with HashiCorp's `Nomad
<https://www.nomadproject.io/>`__ application scheduler. See the code block
below for an example Nomad file.

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: text

  job "go-elasticsearch-alerts" {

    datacenters = ["us-east-1"]
    region      = "us-east"
    type        = "service"

    update {
      max_parallel     = 1
      canary           = 1
      min_healthy_time = "30s"
      healthy_deadline = "2m"
      auto_revert      = true
    }

    migrate {
      max_parallel     = 1
      health_check     = "checks"
      min_healthy_time = "30s"
      healthy_deadline = "5m"
    }

    meta {
      GO_ELASTICSEARCH_ALERTS_VERSION = "0.0.21"
    }

    group "alerters" {
      count = 2

      constraint {
        distinct_hosts = true
      }

      ephemeral_disk {
        sticky = true
      }

      restart {
        interval = "20s"
        attempts = 1
        delay    = "20s"
        mode     = "delay"
      }

      task "daemon" {
        driver = "docker"

        config {
          image = "alpine:3.8"

          command = "/local/go-elasticsearch-alerts"

          volumes = [
            "/etc/elasticsearch/tls:/etc/elasticsearch/tls",
            "/etc/consul/tls:/etc/consul/tls",
            "/etc/ssl/certs:/etc/ssl/certs",
          ]

          dns_servers = [
            "${attr.unique.network.ip-address}",
          ]
        }

        artifact {
          source      = "https://github.com/morningconsult/go-elasticsearch-alerts/releases/download/v${NOMAD_META_GO_ELASTICSEARCH_ALERTS_VERSION}/go-elasticsearch-alerts_${NOMAD_META_GO_ELASTICSEARCH_ALERTS_VERSION}_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz"
          destination = "local/"

          options {
            checksum = "sha256:471f879ed2f31c030832553c6d9cb878dac5d413892ecad9b05a7446bdf3c807"
          }
        }

        resources {
          memory = 400
          cpu    = 300
        }

        env {
          GO_ELASTICSEARCH_ALERTS_CONFIG_FILE = "/local/alerts-config.json"
          GO_ELASTICSEARCH_ALERTS_RULES_DIR   = "/local/rules"
        }

        template {
          data = <<EOH
  {
    "elasticsearch": {
      "server": {
        "url": "https://elasticsearch.service.consul:9200"
      },
      "client": {
        "tls_enabled": true,
        "ca_cert": "/etc/elasticsearch/tls/elastic-ca-chain.pem",
        "client_cert": "/etc/elasticsearch/tls/elastic-cert.pem",
        "client_key": "/etc/elasticsearch/tls/elastic-key.pem",
        "server_name": "node.elasticsearch.service.consul"
      }
    },
    "distributed": true,
    "consul": {
      "consul_lock_key": "go-elasticsearch-alerts/leader",
      "consul_http_addr": "http://{{ env "attr.unique.network.ip-address" }}:8500"
    }
  }
  EOH
          destination = "local/alerts-config.json"
          change_mode = "restart"
        }

        template {
          data = <<EOH
  {{ key "go-elasticsearch-alerts/rules/apm-errors" }}
  EOH
          destination = "local/rules/apm-errors.json"
          change_mode   = "signal"
          change_signal = "SIGHUP"
        }
      }
    }
  }

According to this job definition, when the job is executed Nomad will download
the Go Elasticsearch Binary from the Github releases page since it was defined
as an artifact and insert it into the container and execute it. Also, because
the rule (called ``"apm-errors"`` in the example) is stored as a template in
Consul, if you change the template in Consul then Nomad will send a SIGHUP to
the process and update the rule without you having to restart the job. This
definition avoids the need to create custom Docker images for your job.
